# cs465 Final Journal
Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
# When examining the Angular SPA we created, we can first compare it with the Express HTML portion of the website to find commonalities and differences. First, Angular is a client-side framework, while Express is a server-side framework. Being server-side, Express follows a conventional Model-View-Controller pattern, in which controllers handle logic, views are HTML files that determine what users see, and models provide an abstraction for database integration. Angular, on the other hand, is modular in nature and is based on components. As opposed to a single view (HTML file) being associated with a controller of logic and singular router, each component inside an ‘app’ contains associated styles, HTML files, and TypeScript files for logic control. No-SQL databases are preferable when data is less-structured, and it scales better with more diverse data types.
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
# JSON is more strict in relation to syntax. Whereas JavaScript is a language used for many purposes, JSON is used to represents objects, and strictly possesses curly-braced objects contianed within square brackets where keys are within double quotes. An example of code refactoring took place when plain HTML pages were replaced with dynamic pages. JavaScript was utlized to render data dynamically that was pulled in from the database, and this occured for rooms, meals, and trips. Each page was passed a data structure that was populated by a call to MongoDB, and the page dynamically accessed attributes within each object. This allows a single code block to be used many times.
Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
# During the development of the SPA, I primarily utilized MongoDB Compass and Postman for testing purposes. Compass integrates with our MongoDB database, and it allows developers to examine changes to data because of POST, PUT, and DELETE requests. Postman allows developers to send GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE requests without using the front-end of the website itself. This allows for much quicker testing, and it allowed me to test the API functionality before building the associated front-end functionality users will interact with. A common issue, and one that I encountered, was accidentally using an incorrect request type, such as calling a GET when I should have coded in a PUT. Simple errors like this are common, but building in proper error handling helps trouble-shoot these issues and examining HTTP status codes such as 201 (success) or 400 (bad request) provides an easy method of testing functionality. Another common error involves pointing an API call at the wrong route, but Postman and Compass can help by providing a quick examination of HTTP status codes and database updates in real-time. 
How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
# As a full-stack software developer, this course has helped expose me to a wider array of technologies and stacks. I have not built a project completely using JavaScript until this course, so now I feel much more comfortable using this popular language and the MEAN stack as a whole. Additionally, this has been good practice using MongoDB and tools like Postman or Compass.
